The updates for our algorithms
have been pretty
simple and most have been
based on gradient descent.
The same is true for
neural networks.
The back propagation algorithm is
actually not that complex.
It is in fact,
just gradient descent.
But, the gradient is a bit more
complex because of
the nested functions.
By the end of this video,
you'll be able to
derive the gradient of
a neural network and implement
gradient descent on
a neural network.
As in linear function
approximation,
the first step is
to define a loss on
the parameters of
the neural network
and then derive the gradient.
The loss function
specifies how far
the networks predictions
are from being correct.
Our goal in training
the neural network,
is to find the parameters which
minimize this loss function.
The gradient of
a function points in
the direction of greatest ascend.
By moving in the direction
opposite the gradient,
we move in the
direction that most
quickly minimizes the loss.
So how do we compute
this gradient of
the loss function for
a neural network?
Before we get started, let's
establish some notation.
The input to the network is
S and the output is y hat.
The hidden layer is
the learned features.
So let's call it x.
The weights A produce
the features,
the weights B linearly weight
x to produce the output.
The output of each layer of
the network can be
represented as a vector.
Here, that is x and y hat.
The first index of
the weight matrices
refers to the inputs
to that layer,
and the second index
refers to the outputs.
We assume for now we
have a generic loss L,
so we can describe
the basic idea.
An example of L is
the squared error.
For the derivation, we
will keep L generic.
We will give you
the specific update
with the squared error later.
Before we dive into the
derivation, let's get oriented.
Though the derivation
is a bit involved,
we will find that the final
update is quite simple.
Each matrix of parameters has
an update that looks like
an error term Delta times
the input to that layer.
For A the input is S,
for B the input is x.
Further, we will find
that Delta A can be
efficiently computed as
a function of Delta B.
The errors Delta B
from the output of
the network are
propagated backwards
to this earlier layer
to help determine
the role A had in
producing that error.
So now, how do we get
Delta A and Delta B?
For fun and of course
educational purposes,
let's do the full derivation now.
Let's start at the output of
the network and work backwards.
There's a good reason for
this as you will see.
We start by taking
the partial derivative of
the loss function with respect to
the first set of weights B.
We use the chain rule given
the derivative of
L with respect to
y hat times the derivative
of y hat with respect to B.
The next step is again to use
the chain rule for
this derivative.
To make this easier,
let's introduce
a new variable, Theta.
Theta is the output of
the hidden layer times
the last set of weights.
Let's write it down on
the side, so we remember it.
Now, let's rewrite
y hat using Theta.
Let's expand the derivative
of y hat with respect to B.
Using the chain rule,
we get the derivative
of f_B with respect to
Theta times the derivative
of Theta with respect to B.
The derivative of Theta
with respect to B is x.
This is because Theta is
a linear function of B,
and because x does
not depend on B.
Now we're done deriving
the gradient for B,
next we'll do the gradient for A.
But before that, let's make
some choices for the loss and
activation so that we can see
a specific instance of
this general equation for B.
Let's define L to be
the squared error
and use a linear activation
on the last layer.
The derivative of the loss
with respect to y hat is this.
The derivative of the activation
for the output layer is one.
This is because f_B
is the identity and
the derivative of Theta with
respect to itself is one.
Here's the generic gradient of
the loss with respect to B.
Plugging this into the gradient
with respect to B,
we get y hat minus
y times 1 times x.
To ease notation while computing
the gradient with respect to A,
let's define a new term Delta B.
We can replace most of the
gradient for B so that it now
becomes Delta B
times its input x.
Now, to compute the gradient
with respect to A,
we need to go through
the same steps as for B.
The main difference
is that we have
one extra chain rule step
because the weights
A also affect x.
Let's start there.
Let's expand this derivative
using the chain rule.
Before we expand the next term,
let's introduce
another helper variable,
Psi equals inputs s times A.
Let's throw that off to the side
and rewrite x to use it.
We then expand the next term.
Using the chain rule again,
we get the derivative of
f_A of Psi with respect
to Psi times the derivative
of Psi with respect to A.
Because Psi is s times A,
we get that d psi dA is s.
Putting it all together,
we finally get the derivative
with respect to A.
We now have all we
need to compute
the gradient of
the network parameters.
We can clean up
this derivative by again,
defining a term Delta A.
Now, the derivative
with respect to
A is Delta A times its input
s. Notice that both gradients
can be rewritten
in a similar form.
They have a term Delta that
contains an error signal
times their input.
Let's take a brief look
at some pseudocode for
implementing the
backprop algorithm
with Stochastic gradient descent.
For each data point
s,y in our dataset,
we first get our prediction
y hat from the network.
This is typically called
the forward pass,
then we compute the gradients
starting from the output.
We first compute Delta B
and the gradient for B,
then we use this gradient
to update the parameters B,
the step size Alpha B.
Next, we update the parameters A.
We compute Delta A
which uses Delta B.
Notice, that by computing
the gradients of the end
of the network first,
we avoid recomputing
the same terms for A,
that were already
computed for Delta B.
In fact, this is the main idea
behind back propagation.
It is simply
gradient descent with
this efficient strategy
to compute gradients.
We then compute the gradient
for A and update
A with this gradient
using step size Alpha A.
This derivation n algorithm
easily extend to deeper networks.
The Delta for the earlier
layer is similarly
computed recursively using
the Delta in the next layer.
The update on
each layer is always of
the form of a Delta times
the input to that layer.
Essentially,
the network passes back
error information stored in
the Delta at each layer.
To make this less abstract,
let's look at the
backprop algorithm
for a particular network.
Here's the pseudocode if
we use the ReLU activation
on the hidden layer and
a linear unit for the output.
First, we compute the error
for the output layer,
then we compute the derivative of
the ReLU units with
respect to Psi,
and finally, we use
the aerial signal
from the output layer
along with you to
compute the air signal
for the hidden layer,
the rest remains the same.
That's it for this video.
Today, we derive the gradient
of a neural network.
We also discussed
the main idea of backprop,
that computing
gradients starting at
the output of the network
can save computation.
This was a pretty
detailed derivation.
You do not actually need to
remember all of these steps.
The goal was to give
you some insight
into the update for
a neural network
and how that might change
with different choices
for the loss,
activations, and layers.
In your assessment,
you'll implement
the pseudocode given you
the end of this video.
In the next video, we'll give you
a few more tools to make
your neural network
implementation
more effective in practice.